# CM1705 Assessment Component 2 Q1
Version Control Systems are extremely useful when creating software from large projects to individual personally developed software as it is very helpful in keeping track of the modification that the code has had over the course of a project. However these systems can be very crude, but due to the usefulness of the internet, they have been greatly innovated and expanded on, even reaching people who do coding has a hobby.

There are many different ways to implement Version Control System the most basic of which is to save a whole new, separate file that is re-named to something like (code_v1, code_v2, code_v3, etc...) there are huge drawbacks to this method, main one being storage. When a new file is saved, every time a change is made. Another drawback is that different developers could be working on separate documents so they can't collaborate. There are positives to this method such as it could be somewhat useful for a single or small group of developers working on a small project as there would be much less storage used.

This is where we enter the world of Git and GitHub (which are VCS), Git tackles the problem of storage as it would be installed on a machine. It makes a record of all the changes made but in a much more storage friendly way and allows a wonderful thing called branches where independent local branches of code would be self-contained so if the user would wonder what changing a part of some code would do, they could, without completely destroying the rest of the code (if that would happen), just reset back to the main version, however if the changes made the code more efficient for example, the user could merge the branch and make it apart of the main code. Git can also be used without internet too, making it very useful in some situations.

Where Git tackles the problem of storage and version history, GitHub tackles the problem of collaboration that is faced when large number of developers are saving their work on seperate files. GitHub solves this problem by hosting all code on a cloud service. It allows multiple developers to work on the same piece of code without impacting efficiency of the developers by use of Pull requests where a developer can change a section of code and send a pull request to the - for example - lead developer where they would review the work (even create a branch with it to test) and deem it reasonable to implement in the main code. GitHub also allows users to add comments on issues and forums for discussions on what could be changed, added or removed. As all code is open source the users can really see what they are installing. GitHub also has forks where a user can create a copy and use it for inspiration for their own works which could be useful if an individual developer is having some trouble for ideas.
